# Microchip PIC Project Boilerplate

This repository aims to create a boilerplate for Microchip PIC projects that are not dependent on their bloated [MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide). This is my attempt to move away from that monstrosity and work in a environment that I enjoy a lot more.

Feel free to use this for your own projects and contribute to make this boilerplate even better.


## Some Details

Sadly Microchip has made our lives very difficult and you still need to have the full MPLAB X IDE installed in order to properly compile and upload your code to their microcontrollers, so because of this you'll have to go into the `Makefile` and set the following variables according to your setup:

  - `MPLABDIR`: Location of the MPLAB X binaries.
  - `MPCCDIR`: Root of the XC compiler directory (NOT THE BINARIES).

Also this `Makefile` is setup so that everything is well organized, so it'll automatically use the following directories inside your project:

  - `src/`: Where you should put your source code.
  - `build/`: Where the objects generated by the compiler are going to be stored.
  - `dist/`: Where the linker will leave the HEX file and a bunch of other stuff.

Whenever you start a new project with this boilerplate make sure to also set the following, very self-explanatory, variables accordingly:

  - `NAME`: Project name.
  - `DEVICE`: Device name without the "PIC" prefix. (eg. PIC12F683 should be 12F683)
  - `PROJECT` (Optional): Name the HEX file will have.
  - `SRC`: Source file names.


## License

This is a boilerplate, so you should be free to do whatever you want with it. No strings attached. Because of the nature of the project I believe the most fitting license is the amazing [WTFPL](http://wtfpl.net/):

```
            DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
                    Version 2, December 2004

 Copyright (C) 2004 Sam Hocevar <sam@hocevar.net>

 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim or modified
 copies of this license document, and changing it is allowed as long
 as the name is changed.

            DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. You just DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO.
```

